# Introduction to CNF Operators

When working on RAN environments there are a set of operators that will be common to almost all of them. In this section we will introduce what those operators are and what they are used for.

## Node Tuning Operator

Helps you manage node-level tuning by orchestrating the TuneD daemon and achieves low latency performance by using the Performance Profile controller.

In RAN environments we will leverage the PerformanceProfile API in order to:

* Update the kernel to kernel-rt.
* Configure CPUs for housekeeping (reserved CPUs).
* Configure CPUs for running workloads (isolated CPUs).

The Node Tuning Operator is part of the standard OpenShift installation.

You can read more about the NTO [here](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/scalability_and_performance/using-node-tuning-operator.html).

## SR-IOV Operator

Helps you manage SR-IOV network devices and network attachments. You can think of an SR-IOV NIC like a hypervisor for NICs, you have a physical NIC and you can create (a limited number of) virtualized NICs out of it.

We usually refer to this virtualized NICs as virtual functions (VFs), and these are exposed in the containers in order to provide extra networks to workloads.

You can read more about the SR-IOV operator [here](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/networking/hardware_networks/about-sriov.html).

## PTP Operator

Precision Time Protocol (PTP) is used to synchronize clocks in a network. When used in conjunction with hardware support, PTP is capable of sub-microsecond accuracy, and is more accurate than Network Time Protocol (NTP).

The PTP Operator can be used to configure PTP on OpenShift nodes.

You can read more about the PTP operator [here](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/networking/using-ptp.html).

## Accelerators Operators

Hardware accelerator cards can be used to accelerate 4G/LTE and 5G virtualized radio access networks (vRAN) workloads. The use of these cards increases the overall compute capacity of a commercial, off-the-shelf platform.

In order to manage these cards, there are multiple accelerator operators that we may need to deploy in our OpenShift clusters.

# Main takeaways of this section

---

[:arrow_backward: Back - Introduction to Single Node OpenShift (SNO)](./2.md)

[:arrow_forward: Next - Introduction to Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP)](./4.md)